other items to the agenda
I yes we are okay hi everyone welcome to
the ipfs islands of August 27 I'll be
your moderator for today and thanks
Jacob
we have a note-taker Thank You Jacob I
see that we have a small agenda for
today at demo we have a demo from waddle
is there any topic of discussion that
you want to add to gender just in time
is there any other demos Jenny go for it
just a quick thing about go and
webassembly in version one point 11
super cool stuff the you want to tell us
a little bit more about then I'm not
sure if I know what you mean yeah so in
version 1.1 of go now you can actually
compile two webassembly so I'll there's
a demo I think I can whip it together
it's actually at the end sweet awesome
okay I didn't know that I've been
hearing news from Nicole and that there
is going to be a comparative assembly or
just like running webassembly I didn't
know that it compiles now to webassembly
yeah market I could just leave it until
uh is there gonna be a go meaning the
stuff yeah I'll talk about it then yeah
there will be a go meeting but like do
every mind like that you know meeting is
really like they're focused it's about
what cut block and why is next it's not
about the bikes or or demos so so like
this is definitely the place to like
share updates or discussions or I just
like raise attention for some discussion
or some demo that you want to share with
the whole group that's it all right so
yeah like if you still can I make it
today that's awesome otherwise we can
always like follow up by email or issue
or next week
oh go ahead Mike hey sorry just before
we go on with the agenda we don't have
to answer this right now but what what
is like what does this mean for the
project overall if you know like go and
rust both compiled to webassembly so at
some point is as they're there give me
some kind of convergence or is this more
just kind of a cool feature that we
wanted them out so it doesn't have to be
answered right now I'm just putting it
out there what does it mean in the big
picture does anyone want straight to
answer Mike so I think for me it was
just I started to learn Brust just
because of the web assembly stuff and I
think that's super cool but actually I
know go already so actually actually
it's why I learned another language and
so I think um I don't think it actually
is full feature access it's still just
just released in just last week so I
think that maybe Steven knows more so
Restless poking into things using faster
because it won't have to do garbage
collection on top of everything else
ago basically ported their run or there
are runtime stupid assembly but coming
on the road runs into the program
assembly will be bit slower okay thanks
that's helpful to the understand all
right thank you okay if there are no
more agenda items will go directly to
the demos is the best part why don't you
undergo - let's try to share my screen
[Music]
let me know if you can see anything we
can say it perfectly no perfect okay so
I've just just before this meeting I
managed to finish writing tests and
pushed all requests for adding more
advanced DNS link support to our browser
extension and what the NS link is it's
just basically DNS txt record that you
published for your own domain and points
it's kind of a like a hint for your
browser that this domain can also be
loaded from ipfs and we have the
performance issues with dots which were
closed by the fact that you have to make
a DNS txt lookup for every new hostname
your web browser is trying to reach and
if you are loading like a webpage with a
lot of JavaScript like ads and trackers
there's like thousands of host names
that need to be checked we can catch
that but on the initial load that was
very inefficient to check every host
name this change introduces an
optimization of looking at the headers
comm arrived with response and if we
have X ipfs path had order then we
interpret that as a very good signal
that this domain is backed by HTTP
gateway and then we may do actual DNS
txt record lookup and that way we can
enable DNS link globally
and the result of this lookup is cached
so every this only the initial request
would need to reach the HTTP server and
as soon as we receive headers if this
header is presenter will cancel the
required entire connection so we don't
receive actual payload over the HTTP and
we redirect like we resume a connection
to this website using local running
gateway that's a little bit of
background more or details are on this
whole request but the demo will be very
quick demo is just opening the dogs at
the FSA OH
and you can see it instantly loaded from
the ipfs and if you go to the
Preferences it's not like it's not
released yet even not in the better it
will be
I hope this week or maybe next week but
if you go to experiments you can see
that we have this nice DNS link support
when you can like decide how DNS link is
supported in your browser extension and
ourselves this very efficient default
which will be enabled for everyone we
also have a separate setting for
enabling or removing support for the
techniques additional header on its own
this header is kind of useful because
people may want to decide to publish
website to like to publish ipfs path
under a root of their website so
basically we cannot tell that the
website is backed by DFS by looking at
the URL but we can inspect headers and
in which we see X ipfs path header which
we've already returned by go ipfs by h
difficult way exposed by goai DFS then
we can automatically upgrade the
connection to that website and logged it
over I DFS I'll stop sharing right now
and are there any questions
well I don't see any questions I'll just
say it's pretty cool and I want to try
it out have you found out of curiosity
have you found like websites that are
using ipfs that's served by BFS and I
can even just like start sketching em oh
yeah like I've I've seen not like most
of our websites of course like IP LD
Explorer ipfs website websites and
others automatically load but there are
also like websites from members of
community like home pages people instead
sending links on the ipfs IRC channel
and if I had like a companion training
and I opened it in the automatically
loaded from IP NS so it's a small change
but I feel it's a huge change for DNS
link adoption it makes it the fact that
it's enabled by default for every user
will make it more useful for web
developers it costs you nothing to just
publish to ipfs also and if users have
ipfs companion bed they then they can
load it from ipfs and what is even
better is that you get automatic
fallback for situation when your HTTP
server goes offline we can like recover
from that your web browsers will have
ipfs companion and you don't need HTTP
transport as long as you had this
initial lookup in place and we can also
recover I just like we did before this
meeting we can recover for from things
like HTTP connection timeout there's
like on error occurred in API in web
extensions we can listen for that event
and we can check in that case we can
check if for that domain is there a DNS
link if the DNS link is present we can
open the website in a new tab from IP LS
even if HD P server was offline so I
think that's pretty cool it is
frequently in a Steven Hanna if also
sleep is more secure here this way like
a service car
- which is unencrypted I'm dedicated
using HTTP for this particular encrypted
right yes and like for for the DNS
lookups what we do is we use DNS API in
go ipfs with a fault back yeah so so
right now it only uses our internal API
so if a user is running go idea fast
locally there like there won't be any
problem like that the problem of the
security of DNS is moved to the DNS
right itself we are using that we can
add an additional fallback for there are
like Public DNS to HTTP endpoints
provided by Google or cloud where we can
add that but I'm not sure if there's a
big benefit because we also like expose
a public a DNS lookup interface on our
public gateway because on IP facade / IP
iv0 / DNS you can make lookups so if you
are running embedded J's ipfs not which
cannot make DNS queries on its own we
fall back in that situation to our
public gateway I don't think that will
be a big problem in that case because we
already need to use a public gateway due
to the lack of like it cannot open TCP
port C luckily yet but those problems
will go away when we have like a kinetic
protocol handler and things from the D
web so I'm very hopeful for improving
this yeah all right thank you so much
for the demo any other questions - oil
ok I don't see him anymore hands and
click you're next yeah let me share my
screen
is it working there sting almost no it
is oh I be the sister right now only
sports your notes but it is going to
change you can like choose if you want
an embedded node or to connect one
external node it does maybe if you go
under advanced options you can choose if
you want to run a note inside a desktop
where I can choose what I really want to
use go or jaws fit or connect to an
external node where you can just add the
IP address it can even be a remote node
lesson to you
we can just try it out with JavaScript
here you can consider the logs it's the
the options for GSM FS the CTO and it
just works but I'm going to lay out some
options that won't be available with
external nodes like stopping the demon
demon built because you won't be sucking
remote node and then you can start it
again unless you go to that remote place
and if you click here you will be able
to bring up the options and when you
start it again you can choose another
options I will try to make it
differently so you can choose it in the
app instead of restarting the FS desktop
I guess I don't know if I was clear
enough do you have any questions about
it any suggestions you and I to stop the
screen share so that we can see
everyone's faces okay all right cool
thank you so much for the demo I don't
see any questions right now so I will
make my suggestion which is it'll be
very cool because like right now
it's on the set up that like you pick
its external Fitz and Bev and they're
like you have like restart the whole
thing again it's actually very cool to
have a pain with all the demons that you
started or that you used like it can be
like if you use the go ipfs even before
if I want to switch back I should not
have to like restart the whole
application like I should just be able
to swap cuz I do ipfs demon same thing
goes for remote demons I can like just
add a bunch of my remote demons and I
very quickly go to the list and pick the
one that's like my ipfs that's a
publication already knows that yeah
that's a good idea I will open an issue
about it since we're going to change the
bestest in soon after device released
the new help you avoid its Louise well I
think that's that would be better to
work on that after we finish rectify
because we're going to change a lot of
desktop why no your your hand up oh just
like a quick quick mention that we will
we want to have a similar like a back
end picker in ipfs companion at some
point and I feel it's like a good idea
is to have the same visual language for
that involve ipfs desktop and ipfs
companion
so we'll probably implement it once and
we use it in both places at least a user
interface part I like that any ETA for
the UI
this quarter that's great
you guys like in the next four weeks
cool any other questions to a hick let
me check the agenda again yeah cool like
this is exciting
what's on your plates for my preferred
companion and desktop if you are not
using and this is a call to everyone
else watching the live streaming and the
people here of course if you're not
using them yet go and install it's
pretty simple
IP first companion just go to your
browser up web extension store and like
its own one-click thing the idea test
desktop you go to the repo and maybe you
cannot share the link here on the notes
and I keep track you use on world a
build for your LS clicking silence on
Excel know the next next next and it's
done and you can like try to run ipfs
without going to the terminal if you
like drag and drop files like share with
your friends and family you can do a
bunch of things without having to have a
super technical interface so check it
out and give if you'd like to idle and I
think they are doing a lot of work to
make it really nice everyone cool ok so
we have a minute left I don't see any
other agenda items so I don't see any
hands if you want to make comments to
now if not I guess this meeting is
adjourned and we will see everyone next
week perhaps one last thing that just
crossed my mind given that we do never
leave for this call and that Rob is not
going to be available that someone want
to take at this moment the role of being
the IPS lead or port the calls like the
wait for the calls for an excellent who
do we have any volunteers
anyone that is extremely excited to do
that all right we will who is that a yay
Molly but I Kira meters like I don't
know what that entails it sounds
exciting
I don't think I've met most of you I'm
Molly I've been kind of
playing around in the the protocol lab
space for a while but excited to get a
little bit more involved so I'm I'm like
wanting to volunteer but I'm not sure
what what the requirements are so maybe
maybe I'll tentatively volunteer myself
and folks can kind of help me out by you
know letting me know all of the things
that would make make that effective oh
alright cool so we have Molly for the
middle of September thank you so much
Molly yeah I'll send you a bunch of
notes but yeah it's pretty much what
just happened here oh but I call to
everyone everyone chat any couple more
details to herd the cats to like come to
the cow but I'll send you notes there
cool thank you so much
all right so six minutes left we don't
have any what things to discuss thank
you all for coming
it's great to see everyone's face and
see you again next week
bye